---
sidebar_label: Release Notes v1.0.0
---

# transform.engine v1.0.0 release notes

- **Engine Version**: `1.0.0`
- **Windows Client Version**: `1.0.0` (download 
  [x86-64](https://downloads.fourieraudio.com/transform/latest/FourierTransform-Latest-win32.exe))
- **macOS Client Version**: `1.0.0` (download
  [x86-64 (Intel)](https://downloads.fourieraudio.com/transform/latest/FourierTransform-Latest-x64.zip) /
  [ARM (Apple Silicon)](https://downloads.fourieraudio.com/transform/latest/FourierTransform-Latest-arm64.zip))

## New In This Release
- Everything! 🎉
- **transform**.engine is your ultimate live plugin host: low-latency, high reliability, and versatile network control.
- ⚡ **Powerful**: Run VST3 plugins in up to 64 chains at down to 1 ms latency over Dante.
- 🌐 **Networked**: Control plugins over the network from macOS or Windows - even over WiFi! Disconnect your computer and transform.engine keeps running independently.
- 💪 **Robust**: Plugin crash isolation: if one chain crashes, the system recovers automatically. Other chains are unaffected.
- 🤯 **Flexible**: Control one transform.engine from multiple clients simultaneously over the network.
- ⏳ **Precise**: Automatically time-align chains with plugin latency compensation.
- 🔒 **Secure**: The Windows plugin hosting environment is never connected to the network.
- ✨ **Efficient**: One-click reset of the Windows plugin hosting environment keeps it pristine for years to come.

## Known Issues

Users should be aware of the following [known issues](../manual/known-issues) in this release, which we hope to address in a future update:
* TF-944: Dante Secondary interface is only operational when using DHCP or Static IP addressing
* TF-1345: Chain metering freezes whilst that chain restarts
* TF-1673: Engine service status indicators are occasionally inaccurate

A small number of plugins may experience compatibility issues running on transform.engine.
For details, see our plugin compatibility database at https://plugins.fourieraudio.com .

## Docs, Support & Bug Requests

We would warmly welcome any bug reports you may have on our discussion site:
https://discourse.fourieraudio.com . We’ll also be happy to chat and answer any questions you may
have there!

To learn more about how to use transform.engine, please check out our docs at
https://docs.fourieraudio.com , where you can also find handy walkthrough videos showing how to get
started.

If you need support with transform.engine, please feel free to reach out to your local dealer or
distributor, or contact us directly at support@fourieraudio.com .

## Upcoming Release Schedule

We are hoping to release transform.engine v1.1 in the next 4-8 weeks. For information on what’s
coming up, see our product roadmap here: https://go.fourieraudio.com/future .
