---
sidebar_label: Release Notes v1.2.1
sidebar_position: -121
---

# transform.engine v1.2.1 release notes

- **Engine Version**: `1.2.1`
- **Windows Client Version**: `1.2.1`
- **macOS Client Version**: `1.2.1`

## Summary

This is a bugfix **transform**.engine and **transform**.client patch release; for details of the
newest improvements, see
[v1.2.0](v1-2-0.md)!

## Bugs Fixed In This Release

1. **TF-2245: engine upgrade fails when updating factory-fresh units**

  We discovered that in v1.2.0, the upgrade system had inadvertently omitted two component packages
  which are required to upgrade a factory-fresh engine to a v1.0+ release. Upgraders for v1.0 and
  v1.1 included the packages in question, but due to a bug the v1.2 upgrade did not. This meant
  that units previously running v1.0 or v1.1 could upgrade to v1.2 without issue, but units on
  older versions could not. This v1.2.1 release now includes the missing packages.

We recommend that all users upgrade to this release.

## Compatibility Notes
This release introduces no compatibility changes from [v1.2.0](v1-2-0.md).

## Known Issues

Users should be aware of the following [known issues](/manual/known-issues) in this release, which
we hope to address in a future update:

- TF-1891: DSP load meter can occasionally jump to 100% load, before returning to normal. We believe
  these occasional jumps are spurious and can be safely ignored.
- TF-2148: When **transform**.engine is the PTP clock leader, changing the sample rate from 96 kHz
  to 48 kHz in Dante Controller can result in the Dante audio transport stalling if transform.engine
  is the PTP clock leader. Restarting the **transform**.engine after changing sample rate resolves
  the issue.

For more details and workarounds for these issues, see the [known issues list](/manual/known-issues).

A small number of plugins may experience compatibility issues running on transform.engine.
For details, see our plugin compatibility database at https://plugins.fourieraudio.com .

## Docs, Support & Bug Requests

We would warmly welcome any bug reports you may have on our discussion site:
https://discourse.fourieraudio.com . We’ll also be happy to chat and answer any questions you may
have there!

To learn more about how to use transform.engine, please check out our docs at
https://docs.fourieraudio.com , where you can also find handy walkthrough videos showing how to get
started.

If you need support with transform.engine, please feel free to reach out to your local dealer or
distributor, or contact us directly at support@fourieraudio.com .

## Upcoming Release Schedule

We are hoping to release transform.engine v1.3 later this year. For information on what’s
coming up, see our product roadmap here: https://go.fourieraudio.com/future .
