---
sidebar_label: Release Notes v1.4.0
sidebar_position: -140
---

# transform.engine v1.4.0 release notes

**transform**.engine **Version**: 1.4.0  
**Windows transform**.client **Version**: 1.4.0  
**macOS transform**.client **Version**: 1.4.0

## Summary

Introducing 🥁... **transform**.engine v1.4\! Featuring:

* **🎚️ DiGiCo integration**: See & control plugins on the console touchscreen. Synchronise snapshots & sessions to transform.  
* **❇️ Multi-channel Chains**: Chains & plugins can now be wider than stereo, supporting multiple inputs & outputs for surround-sound applications.  
* **↩️ Sidechains**: Plugins can now have external sidechain inputs patched from the Dante network.  
* **🎛️ Plugin Grids**: See & control multiple plugins at once. More plugins, more fun.  
* **🔍 Chain Groups**: Filter the displayed chains by group, making it quick to find what you’re looking for.  
* **🌍 Overview Mode**: See all of your chains at once.  
* **🔌 AES67 Support**: Dante AES67 mode allows cross-compatibility with a wide range of AES67 devices.

… plus many quality of life improvements and bugfixes for everyone to enjoy.

## New In This Release

- **TF-1109**: Plugin grids show plugin view for multiple plugins at once.  
- **TF-444:** Chains can now have more than 2 inputs or outputs.  
- **TF-2693**: Chains can now be patched with non-contiguous inputs or outputs.  
- **TF-445**: Select a bus configuration for a plugin instance.  
- **TF-1094**: Plugin instances can now have sidechain inputs patched.  
- **TF-157**: Chains can now be assigned to chain groups, which can be used to filter the displayed chains.  
- **TF-1097**: Overview mode lets you see a higher-density overview of all chains in the system on one screen.  
- **TF-2350**: Dante AES67 mode is now available; it can be enabled in Dante Controller.  
- **TF-1286**: A default gateway can now be set for network interfaces configured with a static IP.  
- **TF-2778**: New chains are now mono by default.  
- **TF-2791**: Cues can now be copied between cuelists.  
- **TF-2125**: You can now overwrite an existing cue on copy.  
- **TF-2465**: See console snapshot number synchronised to a cue in cuelist view.  
- **TF-2877**: Quickly unselect everything by clicking “Home”.  
- **TF-2793**: Be prompted when a re-scan is required to enable new features.  
- **TF-2739**: Changing clock time or date is now disabled.  
- **TF-2717**: Reduce network traffic between client and engine.  
- **TF-2693**: Dropdown menus can be navigated via keyboard arrow keys.  
- **TF-2693**: Chain patch selector respects keyboard input.  
- **TF-2697**: Improve logging of PTP changes.  
- **TF-2841**: Improve logging of Windows environment.

## Bugs Fixed In This Release

- **TF-2746**: Some installed Waves programs could interfere with **transform**.suite installation.  
- **TF-2795**: Client could occasionally show a disconnection warning shortly after a renderer comes online.  
- **TF-2899**: If the **transform**.engine was turned off shortly after creating a showfile, showfile data could be corrupted.  
- **TF-2857:** When loading a showfile from a different engine, plugin library entries could show as unavailable.  
- **TF-2770**: Dropdown inputs had to be asked twice to close.

## Compatibility Notes

Showfiles are fully backwards- and forwards-compatible with transform.engine v1.1-v1.3.

**transform**.engine v1.4 is fully backwards compatible with transform.client v1.0-v1.3, and vice-versa; you can connect to an engine running v1.3 from a client running v1.4, and to an engine running v1.4 from a client running v1.3.

Downgrading to versions prior to v1.4 is currently not possible once v1.4 has been installed.

## Known Issues

Users should be aware of the following known issue in this release, which we hope to address in a future update:

- **TF-2749**: A bug in macOS 15.2 and 15.3.1 causes macOS to block “Local Network” access for apps after reboot until manually enabled again in Settings. We are awaiting a fix from Apple.  
- **TF-2148**: When **transform**.engine is the PTP clock leader on boot, changing the sample rate from 96 kHz to 48 kHz in Dante Controller can result in the Dante audio transport stalling. Restarting the **transform**.engine after changing sample rate resolves the issue.  
- **TF-2698**: When bx\_limiter and AMEK EQ 200 are used in a chain, recalling cues can cause a momentary increase in DSP load.  
- **TF-1778**: It is possible to configure both the Primary and Control networks to be Link Local, causing IP network issues.  
- **TF-1779**: It is possible to configure multiple network interfaces with overlapping Static IP subnets, causing IP network issues.

A small number of plugins may experience compatibility issues running on **transform**.engine. For details, see our plugin compatibility database at [https://plugins.fourieraudio.com](https://plugins.fourieraudio.com) .

## Docs, Support & Bug Reports

We would warmly welcome any bug reports you may have on our discussion site: [https://discourse.fourieraudio.com](https://discourse.fourieraudio.com) . We’ll also be happy to chat and answer any questions you may have there\!

To learn more about how to use **transform**.engine, please check out our docs at [https://docs.fourieraudio.com](https://docs.fourieraudio.com) , where you can also find handy walkthrough videos showing how to get started.

If you need support with **transform**.engine, please feel free to reach out to your local dealer or distributor, or contact us directly at [support@fourieraudio.com](mailto:support@fourieraudio.com) .

## Upcoming Release Schedule

We are hoping to release **transform**.engine v1.5 in Q3 this year. For information on what’s coming up, see our feature horizon here: [https://docs.fourieraudio.com/roadmap/](https://docs.fourieraudio.com/roadmap/) .
