---
sidebar_label: Release Notes v1.5.0
sidebar_position: -150
---

# transform.engine v1.5.0 release notes

- **transform**.engine **version**: `1.5.0`
- **Windows** **transform**.client **version**: `1.5.0`
- **macOS** **transform**.client **version**: `1.5.0`

## Summary
Say bonjour 👋  to **transform**.engine v1.5! Featuring:

* **🎵 Tap Tempo**: set tempo values by tapping, typing, cues or MIDI, to easily synchronise tempo across Plugins.
* **🛡️ Recall Safe**: set individual plugins as Recall Safe, to prevent them from being affected by any Cues.
* **🔎 Detailed DSP monitoring**: see more detail about how your processing budget is used by each of your Chains, to fully understand the performance of your Showfile.

… plus lots of quality of life improvements and bugfixes for your mixing pleasure!

## New In This Release

- **TF-138**: Recall Safe can now be set for a Plugin Instance. When enabled, firing Cues will have no effect on that Plugin Instance.
- **TF-133**: Tap Tempo: **transform**.engine now has a global tempo which is passed to plugins. When enabled on a plugin instance, you can tap or manually input a new global Tempo in **transform**.client, store and recall the global Tempo in cues, and send Tempo taps via MIDI.
  - **TF-3395**: Cuelist recall filters can be set to exclude affecting the global Tempo.
- **TF-137**: Chains now have individual DSP usage metering. The DSP load graph in the Performance tab now has much more detail, showing you how each chain contributes to the DSP core’s usage of the available processing budget.
  - **TF-3445**, TF-3478: The DSP meters now have a resettable peak hold.
  - **TF-2204**: **transform**.client now reports which DSP core each Chain is running on.
  - **TF-3179**: Overrun counts per DSP core can now be seen in **transform**.client.
  - **TF-3324**: The DSP mini-view now warns you if DSP overruns have occurred.
  - **TF-3322**: DSP overruns can now be reset to zero.
Document how to install UA plugins on **transform**.engine
- **TF-3022**: Selectable default chain width for newly created chains.
- **TF-3025**: Support additional bus configurations for surround-sound plugins.
- **TF-3156**: **transform**.client now remembers its size and position when closed and re-opened.
- **TF-3156**: **transform**.client can now be fullscreened on macOS.
- **TF-2736**: Network status is now shown in **transform**.client, and a warning is shown if the network is not Gigabit.
- **TF-2707**: Plugin Collections can now be upgraded.
- **TF-3065**: Currently-fired Cues can now be deleted.
- **TF-3243**: Plugin Bypass, Smite, Sidechain and Recall Safe indicators can now be seen in Plugin Grid and in Plugin View.
- **TF-2985**: Plugins Instances with Sidechain patched are now indicated with an icon on the instance.
- **TF-3189**: More Cues are now visible in the Cuelist mini-view, and more of the Cue label can be seen.
- **TF-3240**: You can now tap or click anywhere on a Chain to select it.
- **TF-3262**: Tapping Home will now close Plugin View.
- **TF-2948**: The front panel encoder is now less annoying: it is now less sensitive, making it easier to input desired values.
- **TF-1866**: The front panel display is now more strict about when it displays “ok”: it now requires more engine services to be healthy, and requires the primary network to be available.
- **TF-1674**: The front panel display now displays a tasteful logo during reboot instead of potentially stale information.
- **TF-2996**, **TF-3129**: Improved Showfile import performance, preventing **transform**.client disconnections in certain cases.
- **TF-1830**: Zhuzh up the Software & Support tab: provide helpful information on how to get support if needed, add a button to find the **transform**.client logs.
- **TF-2751**: Log information about connected iLoks on boot.
- **TF-3414**: Log information about disk usage.
- **TF-3080**: Log information about RAM usage.
- **TF-3396**: Log **transform**.engine thermal data.
- **TF-3199**, **TF-3257**, **TF-3263**: Upgrade Linux operating system, improve real-time performance.
- **TF-905**: Updated key **transform**.client platform dependencies, delivering various security fixes and performance improvements.
- **TF-3398**; The Dante Embedded Platform is upgraded to v.1.4.2.1, resolving the following issues:
    - **TF-2388**: When patched to certain Dante endpoints (including certain models of DiGiCo DMI-Dante cards), if the other endpoint was rebooted, it would not receive audio until a PTP clock leader transition occurred.
    - **TF-2148**: When **transform**.engine is the PTP clock leader on boot, changing the sample rate from 96 kHz to 48 kHz in Dante Controller could result in the Dante audio transport stalling.
**TODO: double check Audinate release notes for anything else of note**

## Bugs Fixed In This Release
- **TF-3148**: Sending lots of MIDI notes to **transform**.engine could cause **transform**.client to momentarily disconnect.
- **TF-3123**: If multiple Cues were recalled within the space of a few milliseconds, **transform**.engine could incorrectly determine that certain Chains needed to be restarted.
- **TF-1740**: Adding a Plugin Instance to a Chain in a Latency Group could result in Plugin Instances being shown as “not ready” incorrectly.
- **TF-3329**: SSL Sourcerer crashes if the “Mono -> Mono” bus configuration is manually selected.
- **TF-3429**: Kirchoff-EQ causes huge DSP load when its UI is opened.
- **TF-3362**: After opening lots of Plugin View sessions, further attempts could fail until **transform**.client was restarted.
- **TF-3519**: Rarely, certain USB drives could cause **transform**.engine not to boot correctly when connected.
- **TF-3498**: After a change in sample rate, DSP deadline information would be unavailable in **transform**.client.
- **TF-3126**: Imported showfiles would get written to log files, resulting in huge log files.
- **TF-2387**: In certain very rare circumstances, chains could get stuck when loading after changing to Edit mode.
- **TF-2678**: In certain very rare circumstances, excess system load could result in a reboot during initialisation.
- **TF-3228**: Selecting “Update Selected” on a connected DiGiCo console could cause **transform**.client to disconnect momentarily.
- **TF-3445**: In showfiles with many Cues, recording or reordering Cues could cause **transform**.client to momentarily disconnect.
- **TF-1778**: It is possible to configure both the Primary and Control networks to be Link Local, causing IP network issues.
- **TF-1779**: It is possible to configure multiple network interfaces with overlapping Static IP subnets, causing IP network issues.
- **TF-2991**: Certain unusual plugin behaviours could result in **transform**.engine running out of disk space if left running indefinitely.
- **TF-3238**: Chains could not be selected via their header when Plugin View was open.
- **TF-3000**: Changing Chain Group with Plugin View open resulted in the Chain erroneously being displayed in the selected Group.
- **TF-3003**: Security patches for OpenSSL TODO detail or strike
- **TF-3332**: **transform**.suite 2025 v1.1 is now available, fixing the following plugin bugs:
- **TF-2792**: In Oeksound Soothe Live and sonible true:level, sending silence to the plugin could result in significantly elevated DSP load.
- **TF-2990**: In Eventide H-3000, using modulated parameters could result in excessive disk usage on **transform**.engine.

## Compatibility Notes
Showfiles are fully backwards- and forwards-compatible with **transform**.engine v1.1-v1.4.

**transform**.engine v1.5 is fully backwards compatible with **transform**.client v1.0-v1.4, and vice-versa; you can connect to an engine running v1.4 from a client running v1.5, and to an engine running v1.5 from a client running v1.4.

Downgrading to versions prior to v1.4 is currently not possible once v1.4 has been installed.
Known Issues
Users should be aware of the following known issue in this release, which we hope to address in a future update:

- TF-2749: A bug in macOS 15.2-15.4.1 causes macOS to block “Local Network” access for apps after reboot until manually enabled again in Settings. We believe this is fixed in macOS 15.5.
- TF-2698: When bx_limiter and AMEK EQ 200 are used in a chain, recalling cues can cause a momentary increase in DSP load.
- TF-3348: When Soothe Live and Arouser are combined within a chain, the chain may need to be restarted to load successfully.
- TF-3434: It is possible for multiple network interfaces to be configured with overlapping subnets via DHCP, causing IP network issues.

A small number of plugins may experience compatibility issues running on **transform**.engine. For details, see our plugin compatibility database at [https://plugins.fourieraudio.com](https://plugins.fourieraudio.com) .

## Docs, Support & Bug Reports
We would warmly welcome any bug reports you may have on our discussion site: [https://discourse.fourieraudio.com](https://discourse.fourieraudio.com) . We’ll also be happy to chat and answer any questions you may have there!

To learn more about how to use **transform**.engine, please check out our docs at [https://docs.fourieraudio.com](https://docs.fourieraudio.com) , where you can also find handy walkthrough videos showing how to get started.

If you need support with **transform**.engine, please feel free to reach out to your local dealer or distributor, or contact us directly at [support@fourieraudio.com](mailto:support@fourieraudio.com) .

## Upcoming Release Schedule

We are hoping to release transform.engine v1.6 in early Q4 this year. For information on what’s coming up, see our feature horizon here: https://docs.fourieraudio.com/roadmap/ .
