---
sidebar_label: Release Notes v1.5.1
sidebar_position: -151
---

# transform.engine v1.5.1 release notes

- **Engine Version**: `1.5.0`
- **Windows Client Version**: `1.5.1`
- **macOS Client Version**: `1.5.1`

## Summary

This is a bugfix **transform**.client patch release; for details of the newest
improvements, see [v1.5.0](v1-5-0.md)!

## Bugs Fixed In This Release

1. **TF-3689**: **transform**.client v1.5.0 fails to connect with engines v0.0.12 and lower.

  We discovered that in v1.5.0, **transform**.client would not connect to **transform**.engines delivered from the factory
  running software versions v0.0.12 and earlier, due to an issue with the
  communication protocol used by those versions (only).

  This v1.5.1 release of **transform**.client resolves the issue, meaning that
  all engines can be successfully upgraded. There is no change to the engine software
  in this release, which remains at v1.5.0.

We recommend that users upgrade to this release if they are affected by this issue.

## Compatibility Notes
This release introduces no compatibility changes from [v1.5.0](v1-5-0.md).

## Known Issues

Users should be aware of the following [known issues](/manual/known-issues) in this release, which
we hope to address in a future update:

- **TF-2749**: A bug in macOS 15.2-15.4.1 causes macOS to block “Local Network” access for apps after reboot until manually enabled again in Settings. We believe this is fixed in macOS 15.5.
- **TF-2698**: When bx_limiter and AMEK EQ 200 are used in a chain, recalling cues can cause a momentary increase in DSP load.
- **TF-3434**: It is possible for multiple network interfaces to be configured with overlapping subnets via DHCP, causing IP network issues.
- **TF-2389**: Importing or exporting a preset can cause the transform.client to disconnect and reconnect.

For more details and workarounds for these issues, see the [known issues list](/manual/known-issues).

A small number of plugins may experience compatibility issues running on transform.engine.
For details, see our plugin compatibility database at https://plugins.fourieraudio.com .

## Docs, Support & Bug Requests

We would warmly welcome any bug reports you may have on our discussion site: [https://discourse.fourieraudio.com](https://discourse.fourieraudio.com) . We’ll also be happy to chat and answer any questions you may have there\!

To learn more about how to use **transform**.engine, please check out our docs at [https://docs.fourieraudio.com](https://docs.fourieraudio.com) , where you can also find handy walkthrough videos showing how to get started.

If you need support with **transform**.engine, please feel free to reach out to your local dealer or distributor, or contact us directly at [support@fourieraudio.com](mailto:support@fourieraudio.com) .

## Upcoming Release Schedule

We are hoping to release transform.engine v1.6 in early Q4 this year. For information on what’s coming up, see our feature horizon here: https://docs.fourieraudio.com/roadmap/ .
