---
sidebar_label: Release Notes v1.6.0
sidebar_position: -160
---

# transform.engine v1.6.0 Release Notes

* **transform**.engine **Version**: 1.6.0  
* **Windows transform**.client **Version**: 1.6.0  
* **macOS transform**.client **Version**: 1.6.0

## Summary

**transform**.engine v1.6 has landed\! Featuring:

* 🍬 **transform.suite '26**: Think '25 was *suite enough*? Suite '26 welcomes Sound Theory's Gullfoss Live, Eventide's Blackhole Immersive , standalone Slate Digital VMR modules, and expanded support for Touch & Turn.  
* 🎨 **Live Presets**: Easily store and reuse plugin settings across multiple chains or cues, even for plugins with no internal presets.  
* 💻 **Plugin Keyboard Input**: Keyboard input is now teleported into plugins: you can now type into plugins when using plugin view.  
* 📈 **More Period Sizes**: Support for 128 and 256 sample period sizes has been added, giving you even more flexibility when balancing latency and DSP load.

… and many more delightful improvements to the **transform** world\!

## New In This Release

- **TF-15**: transform.client now automatically discovers transform.engines available on the network.  
- **TF-91**, **TF-92**: You can now create a preset from a plugin’s current state, and assign presets to plugins to have them reference the saved data.  
- **TF-521**: Keyboard input to plugins: you can now type into plugins when using plugin view.  
- **TF-3669**: Modifier keys (Control, Alt & Shift) now work when providing mouse input to plugins.  
- **TF-1717**: 128 & 256 sample period sizes are now available.  
- **TF-4142**: More plugin bus configurations are now supported, including immersive-input, immersive-output configurations.  
- **TF-3938**: transform.client now includes a system round-trip latency estimation.  
- **TF-1151**: transform.engine temperature is shown in transform.client, with warnings if the device is hot.  
- **TF-2651**, **TF-1531**: transform.client shows a warning if the network connection to transform.engine seems slow or lossy.  
- **TF-3726**: transform.engine now collects additional error reporting detail for certain error cases.  
- **TF-3974**: Annunciator entires in the status bar can now be clicked to navigate to the appropriate System tab.  
- **TF-3720**, **TF-4126**: Plugins with tempo connect enabled display an indicator icon in plugin view and grid view titlebars.

## Changed Functionality In This Release

- **TF-3844**: Plugin states are now imported and exported using the preset management view in the Library tab.  
- **TF-2825**, **TF-4349**: transform.suite expiration dates and status are now more clearly displayed.  
- **TF-4002**: When audio is not flowing because the audio networks are disconnected, transform.client will now show “Audio IO disconnected” rather than “heartbeat stalled”.  
- **TF-3941**: More logs are now captured from Dante.  
- **TF-3274**: The hypervisor which runs the plugin host has been upgraded, bringing a number of performance improvements.  
- **TF-3992**: When components are expected to be offline, they are shown with a grey indicator in System Status.  
- **TF-4369**: iLok Licence Manager is upgraded to version 5.10.3.  


## Bugs Fixed In This Release

- **TF-3348**: When Soothe Live and Empirical Labs Arouser are combined within a chain, the chain may need to be restarted to load successfully.  
- **TF-3767**: Cedar DNS One could cause transform.engine to run out of RAM.  
- **TF-3429**, TF-4305, TF-4257: Certain plugin UIs could cause DSP spikes.  
- **TF-3130**: UAD plugins cause DSP spikes on DSP Core 1 when opening their UI.  
- **TF-2140**: Plugins that fail to load would cause DSP measurements to be constantly full-scale.  
- **TF-3826**: When uploading transform.suite, under certain circumstances transform.client could disconnect.  
- **TF-3557**: Certain plugin errors could cause DSP load spikes during error handling.  
- **TF-3566**: Parts of the transform.client UI could flicker when being shown for the first time after a resize.  
- **TF-4031**: Engine time performance measurement in transform.client is shown with the wrong units.  
- **TF-3644**: Tempo connection button icon not consistent.  
- **TF-4054**: DSP load indicator could erroneously display as “stalled” even when data available.  
- **TF-3641**: Network status indications in transform.client were slow to update  
- **TF-4244**: Certain immersive bus configurations would be incorrectly detected as available

## Compatibility Notes

Showfiles are fully backwards and forwards-compatible with **transform**.engine v1.1 - v1.6.

**transform**.engine v1.6 is fully backwards compatible with **transform**.client v1.0-v1.5, and vice-versa; you can connect to an engine running v1.5 from a client running v1.6, and to an engine running v1.6 from a client running v1.5.

Downgrading to versions prior to v1.6 is not possible once v1.6 has been installed.

## Known Issues

Users should be aware of the following known issues in this release, which we hope to address in a future update:

- **TF-4396**: A recent update to Waves 16 plugins has caused a compatibility issue with the graphics drivers used by all versions of transform.engine. We are working with Waves to understand the cause. We temporarily recommend that users either use Waves 16 installers from prior to the December update, or use Waves 15 installers. We expect to release a fix for this issue in the coming weeks.  
- **TF-2749**: A bug in macOS 15.2-15.4.1 causes macOS to block “Local Network” access for apps after reboot until manually enabled again in Settings. We can confirm that this is fixed in macOS 15.6.1.  
- **TF-2698**: When bx\_limiter and AMEK EQ 200 are used in a chain, recalling cues can cause a momentary increase in DSP load. We are working with the plugin publisher to resolve this issue.  
- **TF-3434**: It is possible for multiple network interfaces to be configured with overlapping subnets via DHCP, causing IP network issues.

A small number of plugins may experience compatibility issues running on **transform**.engine. For details, see our plugin compatibility database at [https://plugins.fourieraudio.com](https://plugins.fourieraudio.com) .

## Docs, Support & Bug Reports

We would warmly welcome any bug reports you may have on our discussion site: [https://discourse.fourieraudio.com](https://discourse.fourieraudio.com) . We’ll also be happy to chat and answer any questions you may have there\!

To learn more about how to use **transform**.engine, please check out our docs at [https://docs.fourieraudio.com](https://docs.fourieraudio.com) , where you can also find handy walkthrough videos showing how to get started.

If you need support with **transform**.engine, please feel free to reach out to your local dealer or distributor, or contact us directly at [support@fourieraudio.com](mailto:support@fourieraudio.com) .

## Upcoming Release Schedule

We are hoping to release **transform**.engine v1.7 in March this year. For information on what’s coming up, see our feature horizon here: [https://docs.fourieraudio.com/roadmap/](https://docs.fourieraudio.com/roadmap/).
