---
sidebar_label: Release Notes v1.6.15
sidebar_position: -161
---

# Fourier Audio transform.engine v1.6.15 Release Notes 

* **transform**.engine **Version**: 1.6.15  
* **Windows transform**.client **Version**: 1.6.15  
* **macOS transform**.client **Version**: 1.6.15

## Summary

**transform**.engine v1.6.15 is a maintenance release, providing quality-of-life improvements, plugin compatibility improvements, security patches and bugfixes for a number of issues.

## New In This Release

- **TF-2807**: **transform**.engine units which have experienced date/time clock drift can now have their date/time resynchronised via the network.  
- **TF-4427**: If **transform**.client discovers an engine on the network but cannot reach it via IP, guidance is now provided to the user to assist with troubleshooting the connection to the device.

## Changed Functionality In This Release

- **TF-4691**: Invalid IP address assignments are now rejected if selected on the front panel.  
- **TF-4512**: The detail pane for a chain now adapts better to smaller screen sizes.  
- **TF-4390**: Improved logging when a plugin appears not to conform with the VST3 standard.

## Bugs Fixed In This Release

- **TF-2431**: Scroll buttons at the top and bottom of Waves plugin preset menus were not visible.  
- **TF-4396**: A recent update to Waves 16 plugins caused a compatibility issue resulting in certain plugin GUIs not being visible. This release provides newer graphics drivers, resolving the issue.  
- **TF-4614**: In certain rare cases, installation of **transform**.suite could fail due to a conflict with installed Waves plugin software.  
- **TF-4677**: **transform**.engine could not deactivate an expired **transform**.suite.  
- **TF-4691**: When selecting static IP addressing mode, an IP address would be auto-assigned but not shown on the front panel. An IP address is no longer auto-assigned.  
- **TF-4453**: A potential security flaw, CVE-2026-25541, was discovered with one of the third party components utilised by **transform**.engine. The issue has been patched, and there was no known impact to **transform**.engine software.  
- **TF-4476**: A potential security flaw, CVE-2026-25727, was discovered with one of the third party components utilised by **transform**.engine. The issue has been patched, and there was no known impact to **transform**.engine software.  
- **TF-4546**: On macOS, autodiscovery of **transform**.engine devices would intermittently fail if the WiFi adaptor was enabled.  
- **TF-4408**: When attempting to connect to multiple unreachable **transform**.engine devices, certain previously-connected and auto-discovered devices would incorrectly not be shown in the list of available devices.  
- **TF-4537**: IP address input previously did not allow digits to be removed from the middle of the IP address during editing.  
- **TF-4616**: In certain rare cases, repatching multiple chains very quickly could result in DSP spikes.  
- **TF-4455**: In certain rare cases, the UI could indicate the Plugin Host to have failed, when it was in fact running correctly.  
- **TF-4527**: On macOS, when started for the first time, the connection list would momentarily be the wrong size.

## Compatibility Notes

Showfiles are fully backwards and forwards-compatible with **transform**.engine v1.1 \- v1.6.

**transform**.engine v1.6 is fully backwards compatible with **transform**.client v1.0-v1.5, and vice-versa; you can connect to an engine running v1.5 from a client running v1.6, and to an engine running v1.6 from a client running v1.5.

Downgrading to versions prior to v1.6 is not possible once v1.6 has been installed.

## Known Issues

Users should be aware of the following known issues in this release, which we hope to address in a future update:

- **TF-2749**: A bug in macOS 15.2-15.4.1 causes macOS to block “Local Network” access for apps after reboot until manually enabled again in Settings. We can confirm that this is fixed in macOS 15.6.1.  
- **TF-2698**: When bx\_limiter and AMEK EQ 200 are used in a chain, recalling cues can cause a momentary increase in DSP load. We are working with the plugin publisher to resolve this issue.  
- **TF-3434**: It is possible for multiple network interfaces to be configured with overlapping subnets via DHCP, causing IP network issues.

A small number of plugins may experience compatibility issues running on **transform**.engine. For details, see our plugin compatibility database at [https://plugins.fourieraudio.com](https://plugins.fourieraudio.com) .

## Docs, Support & Bug Reports

We would warmly welcome any bug reports you may have on our discussion site: [https://discourse.fourieraudio.com](https://discourse.fourieraudio.com) . We’ll also be happy to chat and answer any questions you may have there\!

To learn more about how to use **transform**.engine, please check out our docs at [https://docs.fourieraudio.com](https://docs.fourieraudio.com) , where you can also find handy walkthrough videos showing how to get started.

If you need support with **transform**.engine, please feel free to reach out to your local dealer or distributor, or contact us directly at [support@fourieraudio.com](mailto:support@fourieraudio.com) .

## Upcoming Release Schedule

We are hoping to release **transform**.engine v1.7 in Q2 this year. For information on what’s coming up, see our feature horizon here: [https://docs.fourieraudio.com/roadmap/](https://docs.fourieraudio.com/roadmap/) .
